# Recommend_Top_5_Thai_Restaurants_in_LAS

PURPOSE

The purpose of this project is to recommend from the Yelp datasets top 5 Thai restaurants in Las Vegas to a user who has reviewed at least one Phoenix restaurant using not only user ratings, but also sentiment scores computed from reviews with two lexicons.

PROJECT OUTLINE

1-  Delivering Working Data Files for the Project (Directory: Data-Files)

In the Data-Files directory, we provide the working csv files for the project although we do not provide the code used in Python/R to develop them, nor do we provide the original Yelp Academic data datasets. For this project, we used exclusively the business and review datasets from the Yelp Dataset Challenge (2015)(http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge). We would like to also warn you that, the working data file used in this project was developed as a starting point by using the word 'Restaurant' as a 'contain' filter in the 'categories' column. We acknowledge that Yelp describes the 'categories' feature as 'localized category names' in its business dataset. Furthermore, we narrowed the working data file not only to users who reviewed at least one restaurant in Phoenix for alignment purposes with the Yelp Restaurant Sentiment Lexicon (http://saifmohammad.com/WebPages/lexicons.html; http://saifmohammad.com/Lexicons/Yelp-restaurant-reviews.zip), but also subsequently to Thai restaurants to satisfy R and RAM limitations. We also deleted three records that did not have user IDs from the working data file.

2-  Scoring Sentiments in Reviews Using Python NLTK and TweetTokenizer (Directory: Sentiment-Detection)

In the Sentiment-Detection directory, we provide one Jupyter Notebook using Python, NLTK and TweetTokenizer to perform a detection exercise of sentiments found in restaurant reviews, to sum up sentiment scores and to scale the scores to a 1-to-5 format. We scaled the scores early in the project for alignment and comparison purposes with the review stars (ratings given by users) found in each review. For the purpose of having one unique rating/score per user-business in the recommender's rating matrices, we selected (1) to average ratings per user-business and (2) to combine all reviews per unique user-business in one review for sentiment score calculations. We acknowledge that these ratings and reviews covered roughly a period of ten years and that the sentiment of users and the quality of restaurants change over time. We made this decision to expedite the project. One might want to consider more recent ratings/reviews to deliver recommendations to users in a real case scenario. 

3-  Recommending top 5 Thai restaurants in Las Vegas Using recommenderlab for R (Directory: Recommender-Models)

In the Recommender-Models directory, we provide five Jupyter Notebooks using R and the recommenderlab package to perform a top 5 recommendation exercise with ratings given by users and with sentiment scores calculated from user reviews. We select sentiment scores calculated with two lexicons, rough and scaled to 1-to-5 with 0.5 increments. We attempt to compare the performance of each of these recommendation exercises with limited success as recommenderlab does not allow to carry over the same user-restaurant variables in random data samples for cross-analysis purposes. Nevertheless, we are able to provide normalization and similarity determination methods that best suit the project and its assumptions. As the working data file focuses on users who submitted at least one review of a restaurant in Phoenix, the Las Vegas restaurants rarely make it to the top 5. Therefore, the prediction matrices are used to come up with top 5 recommendations of Thai Restaurants in Las Vegas with a significant decrease in accuracy. May this project serve as a spring board for further development in recommender systems.
